.TH "tractor" 1

.SH NAME
tractor \- Command line interface for the TractoR MRI analysis project

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tractor \fR[\fB\-ldzqfbi\fR] [\fB\-v \fIlevel\fR] [\fB\-a \fIarchitecture\fR] [\fB\-w \fIworking_dir\fR] [\fB\-c \fIconfig_file\fR] \fIscript \fR[\fIarguments\fR]\fB
.br
.B tractor \-o \fR[\fB\-w \fIworking_dir\fR]\fB \fIscript\fB
.br
.B tractor \-h

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtractor\fR program provides a simple shell interface to the packages making up the core of the TractoR project, via a set of experiment \fIscripts\fR which encapsulate common tasks. A \fIscript\fR may take a number of \fIarguments\fR and/or configuration parameters, which can be specified on the command line or in a separate file (see "Script Configuration and Arguments" below). In the second synopsis form, using the '\-o' flag, the program will give a description of the specified experiment, along with a list of the options relevant to it. The final form summarises the flags available to the \fBtractor\fR program itself.
.PP
The \fIscript\fR, a text file containing R code, need not be specified with the '\.R' extension. The program searches in the current working directory for the named \fIscript\fR first, followed by any directory specified using the '\-w' flag, then ~/\.tractor, and finally \fB$TRACTOR_HOME\fR/share/tractor/experiments. Additional search paths can be specified using the \fBTRACTOR_PATH\fR variable (see "Environment Variables" below). Any \fIscript\fR not in one of these locations must be specified using its full path.
.PP
By default, a log file containing a history of all TractoR experiments run is created or updated in the working directory. This can be useful to keep track of what has been done, but it can be disabled using the '\-z' flag to reduce clutter if desired. Calls to scripts which are purely informative are not usually logged.
.PP
Multiple related calls to a TractoR script can be easily parallelised using \fBplough\fR(1).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage information and quit.
.TP
.B \-o
Do not run the \fIscript\fR, but instead produce a list of the options that it supports, along with their default values. Also provides a short description of the purpose of the \fIscript\fR.
.TP
.B \-l
Direct output to a log file as well as \fBstdout\fR(4).
.TP
.B \-d
Produce debugging output; equivalent to '\-v 3'.
.TP
.B \-z
Do not write the command line used into a history log file.
.TP
.B \-q
Run in quiet mode. The tractor program will not produce any output of its own.
.TP
.B \-f
Profile the performance of the \fIscript\fR, producing a text file with an '\.Rprof' extension in the working directory. The file gives information on the time spent inside the various R functions called. This is primarily intended for advanced users.
.TP
.B \-b
Run R in batch mode, which is entirely noninteractive, and will produce no output until it finishes running (except to a log file, with '\-l'). This can be useful when running multiple experiments in parallel.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore any personal config files in ~/\.tractor.
.TP
.B \-v \fIlevel\fB
Produce verbose output: the \fIlevel\fR determines the amount of extra information reported, from 0 (least) to 3 (most). The default is 1.
.TP
.B \-a \fIarchitecture\fB
Specify a subarchitecture (e.g. 'x86_64'), which is passed to R. This option can be used to switch between subarchitectures on systems, such as Mac OS X, which support them, thereby switching, for example, between 32-bit and 64-bit builds of R.
.TP
.B \-w \fIworking_dir\fB
Specify the working directory for the experiment, which will be created if necessary (default is the current directory).
.TP
.B \-c \fIconfig_file\fB
Specify a configuration file in YAML format. Note the path to the file is relative to the current directory, rather than the working directory specified with '\-w' (if any). This flag may be specified multiple times.

.SH SETTING DEFAULT OPTIONS
It is possible to set up user-specific defaults for each of the options that the program supports. To do this, a user can create a file at ~/\.tractor/config which sets any or all of the following variables, using \fBbash\fR(1) syntax. (This file is ignored if \fBtractor\fR is run with the '\-i' flag.) Note that 'off' and 'on' are represented by the numbers 0 and 1, respectively.
.TP
.PP
\fBName\fR             \fBEquivalent flag\fR       \fBDefault value\fR
.br
show_options     -o                    0
.br
keep_log         -l                    0
.br
write_history    -z (switches to 0)    1
.br
quiet            -q                    0
.br
profile_performance
.br
                 -f                    0
.br
batch_mode       -b                    0
.br
verbose_level    -v                    1
.br
architecture     -a                    ''
.br
working_dir      -w                    '.'
.br
config_file      -c                    '/dev/null' (i\.e\. none)
.PP
Thus, if you do not want a history file to ever be created, and you want moderately verbose output by default, your config file would contain
.TP
.PP
write_history=0
.br
verbose_level=2
.PP
Note that the names of any default configuration files (described below) given to the 'config_file' named option in this way should be separated by colons.

.SH SCRIPT CONFIGURATION AND ARGUMENTS
Most experiment scripts offer a number of options that describe what processing is to be done, and to which data it is to be applied. These options may be specified in a configuration file (with the '\-c' flag), using a small subset of the YAML markup language. Parameter names and values are separated by a colon (and optional space); and lists of values are given inside square brackets, comma-separated:
.TP
.PP
Param1: 17
.br
Param2: false
.br
Param3: [ /data/subject1,
.br
          /data/subject2 ]
.PP
Note that all parameter names begin with an upper case letter, and lists of values may span more than one line. Multiple configuration files may be specified on the command line (using several '\-c' flags), in which case they are read in the order given, with any duplicate parameters in later files overriding the values set in earlier ones.
.PP
Default parameters for a particular script can be specified in a YAML file in the ~/\.tractor directory whose name corresponds to the script; for example, defaults for the 'dpreproc' script would be put in ~/\.tractor/dpreproc.yaml. (Such files are ignored if \fBtractor\fR is run with the '\-i' flag.) 
.PP
Configuration parameters may also be specified directly on the command line, after the script name, although in that case there must be \fIno space\fR between the colon and the value. Lists of values cannot be specified in this way.
.PP
Some scripts additionally take command line arguments, which are specified after the script name, and are distinguished from named parameters by being unlabelled.

.SH EXAMPLES
In the simplest use case, only an experiment script name need be specified, as in
.TP
.PP
tractor dpreproc
.PP
which runs the 'dpreproc' script with no arguments or configuration parameters. It is more common, however, that some extra information does need to be supplied.
.TP
.PP
tractor \-v2 track /data/subject1 34,23,17 Streamlines:5000
.PP
This example runs the 'track' script, generating moderately verbose output ('\-v2'). It passes two unnamed arguments, a session directory ('/data/subject1') and a seed point ('34,23,17'); one named parameter, 'Streamlines', is set to '5000'.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
At present the \fBtractor\fR program makes use of two environment variables, \fBTRACTOR_HOME\fR and \fBTRACTOR_PATH\fR, when looking for \fIscript\fR files. If no \fIscript\fR is found in the current or working directory, or in ~/\.tractor, the program next searches any directories given by the \fBTRACTOR_PATH\fR environment variable. (The format of this variable is the same as the standard \fBPATH\fR, with multiple directories separated by colons.) The default search location, \fB$TRACTOR_HOME\fR/share/tractor/experiments, is searched last. 

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return value is 0 if no errors were generated by the experiment script, and 1 otherwise. The exact number of errors and warnings generated is written to \fBstdout\fR(4) unless the '\-q' flag is given.

.SH TRACTOR AND R
Unfortunately, R does not currently provide a neat mechanism for interaction of the type that \fBtractor\fR requires for interactive \fIscripts\fR. TractoR therefore uses its own command line front-end in preference to R's, although the behaviour of the two is very similar. The main user-visible difference is currently the use of colour to highlight errors and warnings in the TractoR interface.
.PP
The front-end should be built when TractoR is installed, but if it is not available for any reason then behaviour reverts to that used before TractoR v2.4.0. In that case the program will use \fBexpect\fR(1) to interact with R if it is available; otherwise it will use an ".Rprofile" start-up file to run its commands. Both of these approaches have limitations, but work well enough for most purposes. A third alternative is to run R in batch mode, which requires no tricks but disallows any interaction with the user. This approach can be enforced using the '\-b' flag. These methods are all planned to be deprecated in a future release.

.SH AUTHOR
Jon Clayden <code@clayden.org>
